>> Speaker 1: So we have a collection of
little examples in this directory called
element factory, which originally was all
going to be buttons, so it was called
button factory, if you see a reference to
that, but then I made other stuff too.
So we'll open that up in the terminal, and
we're gonna start just by
looking at the button example.
And this one is just raw JavaScript,
vanilla JavaScript,
DOM manipulation,
where we will go ahead and
we will create a button, and
we will give it the text,
then click me,
we'll add an event listener.
If someone clicks it, we will
change the text content to clicked,
and we'll hand that DOM node
off to our tests, right?
Not the most sophisticated
component in the world, but
we'll demonstrate our point.
So here we've got some work for
me to do here,
which is it should create
a button element, right?
So real quick in this vitest.config,
you can see I've got happy-dom set up.
Great, we will play around with some
Svelte and React components later, so
those are set up in there.
But this is the only thing,
this is the only prerequisite for
anything we're about to do here.
Cool, so now I'm gonna do, let's try
something very, very simple for starters.
>> Speaker 1: Create button.
I don't actually know if this
one's gonna work, to be,
>> Speaker 1: Let's go ahead and run this.
Fun fact, if you run npm-test,
It will run all the ones, right?
If you run npm test button,
it only ran two of them,
which is alert button and button, right?
So you can scope it down a little bit.
Let's get rid of that to do here, right?
And so right now let's to
do these just real quick.
We are creating a button as an instance
of HTML element, everything is great.
If, for example, I get rid of this line,
I think I might have to turn this off and
turn it back on.
It fails because it doesn't
know what document is, right?
That is all that that line is doing.
It's just simulating all the DOM APIs,
document, window, navigator,
local storage, session storage, stuff
with, cookies, stuff along those lines.
It's basically giving you a spec
compliant version of the DOM.
If your tests are failing for
weird reasons like this,
that's the one liner you need.
It's gonna be different for
other frameworks, but that's your issue.
And then you probably have to quit and
restart the, all right,
so it passes, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Does happy-dom or jsdom
have to be NPM installed separately, or
does the test take care of it?
>> Speaker 1: That's a great question.
Yes-ish, so the question was, does jsdom
have to be installed as a dependency?
Yes-ish, which is yes.
If you don't, and you have it in there,
vitest will go like, hey,
you don't have happy-dom installed.
Do you want to install it now and
you hit the Y key or the enter key and
it installs it for you,
but the end result is yes.
That way you don't have both of them
in there too if you don't need them.
>> Speaker 2: And one other setup
question, if we were using Vue in vitest,
would we need an alternate
to jsdom in setup files?
>> Speaker 1: No.
>> Speaker 1: That's easy.
That setup files,
we're not actually even getting to yet.
In fact, for our purposes right now,
I could theoretically take that line out.
We'll talk about that one later.
But in terms of right now
this will basically work
with anything that works in the DOM.
So even this line is framework agnostic,
but we're just not using it yet.
So at this point,
I could grab a React component.
I could grab a Svelte component.
I could grab a Vue component.
The only reason we don't have a Vue
component in here is cuz I've never
used Vue in my life.
I work with Svelte every day.
I have done React forever.
There's no Vue in here because
I don't know how to do Vue.
But everything we're doing will,
the fact that we touch stuff
with different frameworks,
all of this will apply to Vue in Angular
as much as it applies to React and Svelte.
In this case, on the super simple example,
we create a button,
as you can see in my first test,
it is an element.
>> Speaker 1: In fact,
it's a button element, right?
>> Speaker 1: I think,
if I'm not mistaken, that's all caps.
In fact, the tag name on it is button.
Do we need to be convinced
any further this is a button?
Have I convinced you
that this is a button?
Great, okay, all right,
so now we want to see,
it should have the text click me, okay.
>> Speaker 1: That's interesting so
we can say expect,
>> Speaker 1: To be, click me.
All right, we're killing it.
>> Speaker 1: All right,
now we're up to the bonus round here.
Should change the text to clicked
exclamation point when clicked.
We are gonna do this the stupidest,
dumbest way you shouldn't do it, and
we will build up from there.
So if you tune out now everyone will
ridicule you when you do what I'm
doing now.
So we can say button = createButton,
and then we can go ahead and
say button.click.
So we got the arrange, we got the act,
and we expect button.,
>> Speaker 1: Exclamation point.
Cool, so
there's a lot that we can do better here.
But I wanna take a moment to celebrate
the small wins that we have.
We rendered a DOM element,
we verified some stuff about it,
we quote unquote interacted with it, and
then we verified that it
changed as appropriate, right?
Are we convinced we could retest
a view application just yet?
We're probably not convinced, right?
But do we feel like we're
making baby steps towards it?
I think we do.